1.2 Hash Pointers
=======================================
Source:  http://www.deltadeltaandmoredeltas.com/

Questions answered in this Post:

-   What is a hash pointer?
-   Once you have a hash pointer, what can you do with it?
-   What is the tamper evident property?

### Hash Pointer

Simply, a hash pointer is a kind of data structure that contains two
parts

-   pointer to where some info is stored
-   (cryptographic) hash of the info

One feature of a hash pointer is we can ask to get the info back and
verify that the information hasn’t changed. If you’re familiar with
basic C programming, the word pointer should be very familiar. Hash
pointers are similar to regular pointers which provide the memory
address of some information and through the pointer you can access this
information when you dereference it.

key idea: build data structures with hash pointers

## Linked List with hash pointers

According to CLRS, a linked list is a data structure in which the
objects are arranged in a linear order. A singly linked list contains an
object with an attribute key and a next pointer. The head of the linked
list is a hash pointer.

**Tamper Evident Log** – log data structure that contains lots of data  
If someone messes with data earlier in the log, we want to be able to
detect it.

Why does the block chain have this property?

If someone messes with a block in the middle of the chain. If he changes
the data, then the hash generated for this block which is stored in the
previous node also would need to change. So even though the hash of the
previous block and the data block line up, the previous previous block
next pointer is based on a hash of the previous block. Because the
previous block is composed of both the data and previous Hash (which has
a change) these would also indicate tampering. Thus the only way to make
this block well is if you change the entire blockchain but at that point
then the head of the block chain is incorrect and since this is the
value that the users store, the user would be able to detect the
tampering.

The head of the block chain is known genesis block.

## Binary tree with hash pointer (Merkle Tree)

One takes consecutive pairs of data blocks and computes the hash of
them. Thinking about a tree, you combine each pair of leaves to create a
code. Combine the two blocks to create two hash pointers. Then, from
those two hash pointers which were created from the left and right
child, you make a hash pointer of that block where you point to the
data. This occurs recursively until you get to some head hash pointer
which as previously is what you store.

Bonus: You only need O(logn) data since you need to know the path of the
block from the head to the leaf (data).

**Advantage of the Merkle Tree**

-   Tree holds many items but only need to remember the root (I think
    you get that from the linked list)
-   Can verify membership in O(log n) time (this is the advantage over
    the linked list

**Variant: Sorted Merkle Tree**

-   can verify non-membership in O(log n)  
    (show items before, after the missing one)  
    One can prove that a block is not in a membership which I guess is
    just as important as well.

Realistically hash pointers can be used in any acyclic data structure.
