1.3 Digital Signatures
=======================================
Source:  http://www.deltadeltaandmoredeltas.com/

Questions answered in this Post:

-   What is a digital signature?
-   What are some of the requirements?
-   What are some practical implementations details?

### Signature

only you can sign, but anyone can verify it  
signature is tied to a particular document (can’t cut and paste to
another doc)

If you had a digital signatures then this identity theft crime described
below would not be possible:  
The scenario works as follows, a person is called and is asked a
question that guarantees that they’ll say the word “Yes”. The caller
(criminal) will record the person answering “Yes”. Then the criminal
will use the voice recording of the confirmation for different
electronic bank verifiers. This concept of cut and paste in my example
is using a voice recording out of context to commit a crime. With a
digital signature, theoretically one cannot take the instance of the
signature out of context and use it for other, potentially nefarious,
purposes.

## API for Digital Signatures

(sk, pk) := generateKeys(keysize)  
sk: secret signing key  
pk: public verification key

sig:= sign(sk, message)

isValid := verify(pk, message, sig)

These different functions hit the key idea of what is a signature. You
generate the key with some size (256 bits) and get two outputs: a secret
key and public verify key. Next you can now sign messages which people
can verify by using the public verify key and the signature. This
signature is tied to a specific document (msg) in this case as well.
Thus the generateKeys and sign use randomized algorithms

## Requirements for a Digital Signatures

-   able to verify valid signatures
-   unable to forge signature

“valid signatures verify” – verify(pk, msg, sign(sk, msg)) == true  
“can’t forge signatures”  
adversary who:  
knows pk (public key)  
gets to see signatures on other messages of his choice then he can’t
produce a verifiable signature on another message

Game we play with an adversary

Challenger (TV judge)  
Attacker claims that he can forge signatures

1. (sk, pk) generateKey  
2. Judge gets the secret key, the attacker gets the public key  
3. The attacker can get signatures on other document. He will see if he can use these the get the signature for this particular document.  
4. Lastly the attacker thinks he has the document, then he sends a message and a signature. Thus the challenger can now run isValid to determine is it true.  
5. This should not work!

## Practical Mentions

1. Algorithms are randomized so you need a good source of randomness  

2. Limit on message size so instead use hash(message) to keep the message less than 256 bits  

3. fun trick: sign a hash pointer meaning signature “covers the whole structure”  If you sign a hash pointer than the entire data structure is protected. So the entire contents of the block chain is protected.

4. Bitcoin uses ECDSA standard (Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm)relies on hairy math…  

5. good randomness is essential because if you foul this up in generateKeys() or sign() then you probably leaked the private key so your “digital signature” is no longer secure.
