1.5 A Simple Cryptocurrency
=======================================
Source:  http://www.deltadeltaandmoredeltas.com/

Questions answered in this Post:

-   What happens when only one party create coins?
-   What is a double spend?
-   What does append only ledger mean and why does it help stop double
    spends
-   What is an issue with Scrooge coin?

## GoofyCoin

The first coin talked about was called GoofyCoin. Here are the main
rules

1.  Only Goofy can create new coins. He owns the new coins created.
2.  Whoever owns the coin can spend it
3.  A coin is a string “CreateCoin \[uniqueCoinID\]” and Goofy’s
    signature
4.  One can verify the coin by looking at Goofy’s valid signature as
    they walk up the chain of previous signatures of a coin.

Goofy can create new coins. When he creates new coins, he generates a
uniqueCoinID that is signed by pk\_Goofy (public key Goofy). All new
coins are owned by Goofy. Whoever owns the coin can spend it. Spending a
coin means transferring the coin from one person to another which is
done by cryptographic operations.

So if Goofy wants to transfer a coin to Donald, he has to go through a
several steps. First steps wold create a new statement “Pay this to
Donald” where this is a has pointer that references the coin in. The
word “Donald” in the previous sentence refers to Donald’s public key.
Goofy also signs the string since he owns the coin, he must sign that he
is spending it. This statement now indicates that Donald now owns to the
coin and he can spend it if he wants in a similar fashion. Each time an
action is done to the coin, it gets chained together. The chain could be
thought of as a linked list of hash pointers where hash pointer contains
the hash of the previous coin. The initial creating pointer only
contains a Create Coin uniqueCoinID statement and signature of Goofy.

Spending a coin means

Take the coins history

Donald payment  
signed by pk\_Goofy  
pay to pk\_Donald: H(head)

head  
signed by pk\_Goofy  
CreateCoin \[uniqueCoinID\]

Now Donald owns the coin and she has to present the full blockchain if
required.  
Now let’s say Donald pays the coin to Daffy then the chain now gets
another entry.

Daffy payment  
signed by pk\_Donald  
pay to pk\_Daffy: H(Donald’s payment)

Donald’s payment  
signed by pk\_Goofy  
pay to pk\_Donald: H(head)

head  
signed by pk\_Goofy  
CreateCoin \[uniqueCoinID\]

This is not a decentralized coin since only Goofy can create the coins.
Also, the only people who know about the passing of coins are those
present in the chain. Thus if Donald tries to give coins to Porky then
there would almost be a two parallel paths that would not known about
each other. Porky and Daffy could both look up the block chain they were
given by Donald and verify that they had a valid coin created by Goofy.
However, Donald was able to “double spend” his coin which is a severe
issue.

**double-spending attack** – someone one tries to spend a coin more than
once.

Brainstorm ways to stop it:

Have a single ledger that everyone looks at. That would be similar to a
bank today in that the bank holds one’s balance.

### Scrooge Coin

This coin tries to prevent what happened with Goofy Coin. However it
still has the property that only Scrooge creates coins. Scrooge
publishes a history of all transactions (block chain, signed by Scrooge)
instead of having others pass it along.

Scrooge is publishing then an append-only ledger. An append-only ledger
means that any data written to the ledger will remain forever and thus
only a single history will occur even if transferring of coins occurs
between different people.

1 transaction per block for simplicity

Now Daffy and Porky cannot both get paid because Scrooge would have
published both transactions and thus dependent on which one came first
the other would be invalid. So while one person would lose, and it is
not clear since it depends on which Scrooge publishes first. Having this
published history helps people detect double spending and thus Porky can
reject the coin if he notices that Donald is trying to send invalid
coin.

Scrooge may also have the job to look for double spends as well and thus
would only accept one and reject the other.

Here’s what it will look at breaking down the transactions.

Create Coins Block  
transID: \#\# type: CreateCoins  
num | value | recipient (pk)

Pay Coins Block  
transID: \*\* type: Paycoins  
consumed coinIDs:

coins created to new recipients

### Validity Rules for Scrooge

-   consumed coins valid
-   not already consumed (Within the same block?)
-   total value out == total value input
-   signed by owners of all consumed coins

This transaction is signed by all owners who are payers

Coins are immutable so they’re constantly created and destroyed when you
pay people.

Coins need to have at least these properties:  
Some transID(num) as its identifier  
Some value  
Some recipient that it belongs to

When a coin is paid, the old coin is consumed and a new coin is created

### What are the issues with Scrooge Coin?

Still not decentralized and you have to trust Scrooge.  
If Scrooge stops creating, validating coins, and telling the truth, then
the coin should no longer be trusted. He can allow for double spends as
well as not meet people’s expectations in terms of how much coin they
transferred.
